Good morning Miss Tiller, come in and have a seat. How are you today? Morning Doctor, well my knee's been acting up again. Sorry to hear that. Which knee is giving you trouble this time? It's the right knee, it's been bothering me more and more lately. Okay, when did you first start noticing it getting first? Mmmmmm, probably about 6 months months ago but in the last couple of weeks it's harder to walk any distance. I see. Can you describe the pain for me? Is it sharp, dull, throbbing or something like something else? It's mostly a dull ache but sometimes sharp if I twist it in the wrong way. If you had to rate it on a scale of 1 to 10? Around a 6 for after working and maybe 3 if I'm just resting. Does the knee soil up? Yes, especially after climbing stairs are working a lot. Any redness or warmth? No, it just looks a bit puffy. So, has it ever logged or felt like it was going to give away? Once or twice it felt like it might buckle but it didn't completely. Okay. And then he clicking, popping or grinding sensations? Oh yes, lots of creaking when I bend it. And what have you tried for the pain so far? Just the over the contour, medication like agoprophal, it helps a bird but wears off quickly. And any stomach upset with that? No, not really no. Oh good. Do you have any history of ulcers, bleeding problems or kidney disease? No, none of that. How about your general health? Any other medical conditions? Well, I do have high blood pressure but that's control with tablets. Which tablets do you take? Alisynoprel, 10 mg, once a day. And any allergies? I think I'm allergic to penicillin. Okay I'll note that. Chachachachachachachachach. Does Arthradt is run in your family? Oh yes, my mum had bad knees in her sixties. She ended up needing surgery. Understood. And how has this been affecting your day-to-day life? I can't walk as far as I used to and I've stopped playing golf. Even shopping is harder now so I get so halfway through. And what about sleep? Does the pain disturb your rest? Sometimes yes, if I've been on my feet a lot I'll wake up in the night with an ache. Okay let's take a look at that knee. Oh, okay. I see some swelling around the joint. When I band it, there's a bit of creaking, what we call crappetus. Your movement is reduced compared to the other side and there is some tenderness here along the inside but your ligaments feel stable which is good. So is that bad? It fits with arthritis basically wear and tear of the joint cartilage. So nothing torn. Unlikely based on the exam but I will order an x-ray to confirm what's going on inside the joint. So osteoarthritis is very common as we get older. There's no cure as such but there are many ways to manage symptoms and keep you mobile. Should I stop walking then? No, actually staying active is one of the best things you can do. Keep walking but pace yourself. Swimming and cycling are excellent because they are easier on the joints. I used to swim, I could try that again. That could be great. I'll also refer you to a physiotherapy. They will show you strengthening exercises for the thigh muscles which supports the knee that can make a real difference. Okay, well I need stronger painkillers though. We can try an aprogzin which is stronger than ibuprofen. To protect your stomach, I'll give you a second tablet to take alongside it. Alright. Do you drink alcohol? Just a couple of beers on the weekend. That's fine with neplovision, but always take it with food. Got it. For swelling, you can also use ice pegs after activity and if things get worse a walking stick or knee brace can help take pressure off. Oh I'd rather avoid a cane if I can. Understand the word. We'll keep that as a backup. Oh honest the tablets don't work. Then we would consider an injection into the joint which can help for several months and if you have mobility declines a lot we can talk about afterlal to orthopedics for surgery. Oh like a knee replacement? Yes. Though that's usually only after other options are tried. You're not at that stage yet. Oh that's a really leaf. So the plan is X-ray, is your epi-netroxen plus stomach protector and we will review in three months. In the meantime, keep active, try swimming again and use ice if it's wise. Okay, thank you doctor. You're welcome, take care Miss Taylor. [BLANK_AUDIO]