Good morning, Miss Taylor. Come in and have a seat. How are you doing today? Morning, Doctor. Well, my knee's been acting up again. Sorry to hear that. Which knee is giving you trouble this time? It's the right knee. It's been bothering me more and more lately. Okay. When did you first start noticing it getting first? Mmm... Probably about six months ago, but in the last couple of weeks it's harder to walk any distance. I see... can you describe the pin for me? Is it sharp, dull, throbbing or something like something else? It's mostly a dull ache but sometimes sharp if I twist it in the wrong way. If you had to rate it on a scale of 1 to 10? Around a 6 for after walking and maybe 3 if I'm just resting. Does the knee soil up? Yes, especially after climbing stairs I'm walking a lot. Any redness or warmth? No, it just looks a bit puffy Has it ever logged or felt like it was going to give away? Once or twice, it felt like it might buckle but it didn't completely And then the clicking popping or grinding sensations. Oh yes, lots of creaking when I bend it. Uh, and what have you tried for the pain so far? Just though over the contour medication like I go for fun, it helps a bird but wears off quickly. And any stomach upset with that? Oh not really no. Oh good. Do you have any history of ulcers, bleeding problems or kidney disease? No none of that. How about your general health? Any other medical conditions? Well I do have high blood pressure but that's controlled with tablets. Which tablet do you take? Alissono Pro, 10 milligrams, 1 C. And any allergies? I think analogic to penicillin. Okay, I'll note that. *chuckles* Does arthritis run in your family? Oh, yes, my mum had bad knees in her 60s. She ended up needing surgery. I understood. And how has this been affecting your day-to-day life? I can't walk as far as I used to and I stopped playing golf even shopping is hard and I was like, "I get so half way through." And what about sleep? Is the pain disturbed your rest? Sometimes yes, if I've been on my fetal Okay, let's take a look at that knee. Oh, okay. I see some swelling around the joint. When I banded it, there's a bit of creaking, what we call cripetas. Your movement is reduced compared to the other side and there are some tenderness here along the inside but your legaments feel stable which is good so is that bad? it fits with arthritis basically wear and tear of the joint cartilage so nothing torn and lightly based on the exam but I will order an x-ray to confirm what's going on inside the joint okay so osteoarthritis very common as we get older there's no cure as such but there are many ways to manage symptoms and keep you mobile So, I'm not sure if I can do that. No, actually staying active is one of the best things you can do. Keep walking, but pace yourself. Swimming and cycling are excellent because they are easier on the joints. I used to swim, I could try that again. That could be great. I'll also refer you to a physiotherapy. They will show you strengthening exercises for the thigh muscles, which supports the knee, that can make a real difference. Okay, will I need stronger painkillers though? We can try an approximate, which is stronger than I do preference. To protect your stomach, I'll give you a second tablet to take alongside it alright do you drink alcohol just a couple of beers on the weekend that's fine with nephloggism but always take it with food got it for selling you can also use ice packs after activity and if things get worse a walking stick or knee brace can help take pressure off. Oh I rather avoid a cane if I can. Understandable. We'll keep that as a backup. Oh, I must have tablets don't work. Then we would consider an injection into the joint which can help first several months and if you have mobility declines a lot we can talk about referral to orthopedics for surgery. Like a knee replacement? Yes. Though that's usually only after other options are tried. You're not at that stage yet. Oh, the training. So the plan is x-ray is zero-ref-raf, naproxen plus tromach protector, and we will review in three months. In the meantime, keep active, try assuming again and use ice if it's soils. Okay, thank you, Dr. You're welcome, take care, Miss Taylor. [BLANK_AUDIO]