good morning please come in and have a seat what brings you in today? morning
doctor I've been vomiting a lot lately I can barely keep any food down I see
how long has this been happening? it started a few weeks ago at first it
was just nausea now and then but now I vomit almost every day and when you
vomit do you notice anything unusual blood unusual color or undigested
food? no no blood just food and some stomach fluid how about pain do you feel
anything when vomiting or after meals? yes I did this burning pain in my upper
chest and stomach it was after meals yeah any trouble swelling like food
getting stuck? sometimes it feels a little tight going down any fever
chills or recent weight changes beside what you mentioned? no fever I lost some
weight but I thought it was from not eating much because of the vomiting? that
makes sense can you tell me about your typical meals do certain foods make it
worse? okay I can barely eat but fatty or heavy meals seem to trigger it no so I
have been trying to avoid fatty or heavy meals since few days? okay let's talk
about your medications can you tell me what you take daily for your diabetes
blood pressure and or any other conditions? yeah so I do have diabetes and I have
blood pressure I take pills for both diabetes and my blood pressure I think
one of my medicines was changed recently but I'm not sure which one? that's
helpful. have you recently started any injections or new treatments? I don't
really remember maybe something my old doctor mentioned? alright I'll check your
records to be sure okay yeah I see that you have recently started on a
weekly injection for your diabetes and the dose was increased about a month
oh yes I think I remember the nurse getting my injection that medication can
help with diabetes and weight but in some patients it slows down stomach
emptying which can cause nausea and vomiting in rare cases repeated vomiting
can injure the esophagus and cause severe reflux or ulcers oh I had no idea
it could do that no one told me it might cause this much trouble it's an
uncommon complication but it can happen especially if vomiting is persistent
since you have had this for a few weeks I would like to do some tests to check
your esophagus what kind of tests? the main one is an endoscopy it's a procedure
where we look at your esophagus and stomach with a small camera to see if
there are ulcers or other damage. I'll also start medication to reduce
stomach acid and protect your esophagus oh yeah that sounds good but will it
heal? most people recover well with treatment will also cause the injection
for now and monitor your blood sugar with other medication that don't cause
these side effects okay but and for my diabetes is it safe to stop
injection? yes we will adjust your oral medications and monitor you closely once
your stomach and esophagus have healed we can decide the safest long-term plan
for your diabetes. I'm worried could this get worse if it's not treated quickly?
yes persistent vomiting can lead to dehydration electrolyte imbalances or
even bleeding from the esophagus that's why we want to start treatment promptly
oh yeah I understand is there anything I can do at home to feel better while
waiting? eat small frequent meals avoid lying down right after eating and stick
to soft or bland foods drink plenty of water but in small
sips avoid very fatty spicy or acidic foods until we see the results
yeah okay I'll try that also we'll schedule a follow-up after the end
is copy if you notice blood in your vomit see the pain or worsening
vomiting go to the emergency room immediately I will doctor thank you for
explaining everything thank you very much you are welcome we'll get the test
done soon and work together to manage your diabetes safely while taking care
of your stomach.